and I'm gonna be honest you I've read
the whole document it's not stupid
Donald Trump's strategy in 2017 was not
stupid it is just impossible stupid and
impossible are two separate things
fully twenty years ago in the year 2000
who ruled Afghanistan the correct answer
is of course the Taliban now suppose
that were to ask you just one year from
now in the far-off distant future of
2020 who will rule Afghanistan
increasingly newspapers are reporting
that the correct answer will be the
Taliban and for some of us
after more than 1 trillion u.s. dollars
in military expenditure over 18 years of
constant warfare that may be a very
difficult answer to accept now to really
tell this story I've got to go back to
the beginning and I don't mean the year
2001 and I don't mean the 1970s no no no
no let's go all the way back to August
21st 2017 August 21st 2017 was the day
the Donald Trump announced on his own
website oh yes and let's not forget
Twitter quote our troops will fight to
win from now on
victory will have a clear definition
attacking our enemies obliterating Isis
crushing al-qaeda preventing the Taliban
from taking over Afghanistan and
stopping mass terror attacks someday
after an effective military effort
perhaps it will be possible to have a
political settlement that includes
elements of the Taliban in Afghanistan
we are not nation-building again period
we are killing terrorists close quote
and notice here the way CNN put a
headline on that Trump declares US will
win it states will quote unquote win in
Afghanistan but gives 50
so the level of cynicism that had set in
but here 2017 in importance now it's not
really so much that this strategy
declares that the United States will win
it's really sort of addressed to a
hypothetical parallel universe in which
the United States already had one
if you think about the wording there
it's possible that you know after an
effective military effort possibly
they'll let in elements of the Taliban
to rule let's just take a quick look at
a map here according to most sources the
Taliban now occupies more territory in
Afghanistan then they'd have at any
point since the year 2004 a few sources
go further and claim that the Taliban
actually controls more territory within
Afghanistan now than they did in the
year 2001
I don't know how reliable that is um the
Taliban aren't just winning the Taliban
have one full stop period and that's
what this map shows so it's not the case
that engaging in negotiations today
Donald Trump is negotiating from a
position of power he is negotiating over
the evacuation of United States troops
after they have been defeated and most
of trumps strategy and actually even
most of the expert opinion in the press
and we're gonna see is instead addressed
to this very peculiar parallel universe
it's just a brief look Lancer of these
headlines know that you shallow guys but
gives you a sense these are um these are
massacres and victories that the Taliban
accomplished during the negotiations
with Donald Trump in just the last
couple of weeks American soldiers killed
during Afghan operation that's one way
to describe it
this took place March 22nd as the u.s.
holds talks with Taliban to end the war
Taliban having just won they're
continuing to score more victories oh
yes and they're not just battlefield
victories they're not just combat
victories this headline from March 23rd
is in effect a terrorist attack carried
out by the Taliban against Afghan people
at the farmer's Day event
in Helmand province so that also was
going on unchecked March 30th explosion
comma Taliban attacks killed dozens
across Afghanistan at least 25 Afghan
security security forces killed in
separate attacks also terrorist attack
killing the students their Afghan vice
president narrowly escapes Taliban
attack March 31st these stories are you
bigger in scale Taliban and circles
government compound kills dozens
they killed 32 soldiers and policemen
within 48 hours in that assault as I
recall I guess and this other attack you
get to see on the map here where they're
distributed geographically March 17th
Afghan troops killed and captured 22
dead more than a hundred flee so again
let's just look at the map and let's
consider the geopolitical context the
military reality of the context that
Donald Trump is negotiating from so look
guys things things have changed things
have changed the policy statement made
by Donald Trump back way back in August
of 2017 that set out a strategy and I'm
gonna be honest to you I've read the
whole document it's not stupid Donald
Trump's strategy in 2017 was not stupid
it is just impossible stupid and
impossible are two separate things
2017 plan in some was one fewer troops
two more victory three leave without
nation-building four kill all the
terrorists and five paradoxically
compromised with the Taliban it's just
just quote unquote make a deal the
strangest thing about that last claim
it's wildly incompatible with the idea
of leaving the country though
nation-building it's incompatible with
killing all the terrorists who are the
terrorists if not thala ban um it's
really built on this very
strange assumption that the Taliban
could be partly in power I think nobody
really wants to face up to the fact that
the Taliban have been playing a game for
the last 18 years that was all or
nothing win or lose live or die
they've been playing by those stakes
they've gotten real used to it and the
United States is not in a position to
offer them a power-sharing arrangement
or just a few seats in parliament or
minority party status and elections
they've won the Taliban have already
occupied the country they're already in
control they're weighing their scoring
new victories even during the
negotiations they understand that the
United States wants certain conditions
before they evacuate but they also
understand that one way or another the
United States will evacuate and when
that happens there is no possibility of
the Taliban being partly in power and
there is no possibility whatsoever of
the Taliban allowing elections
neither the elections of their
competitors nor do they wish to be
elected themselves I went over the
reports of what was said in the Trump
negotiations shall we call them the
Trump Taliban negotiations what else am
I gonna call it um I did not see any
mention of of Elections whatsoever there
were some promises that the United
States was asking the Taliban to make I
did not see elections even being on the
table now it's obviously we don't have a
complete transcript it's possible that
the elections are raised and it's
possible that the Taliban just laughed
out loud in their faces I don't know
because let me tell you something you
might have missed it it has not been
very long since what's the budgets in
Afghanistan they didn't get a whole lot
of press coverage but let me just still
this up on screen real quick here yeah
they had elections and the Taliban made
bold declarations like this one Taliban
announced quote these elections have no
Islamic or Afghan essence they are just
a foreign plot to prolong the occupation
they said further it was the duty of
every Afghan and every Muslim to oppose
them so do you imagine that the trial
Taliban negotiations will fundamentally
change the situation and the other thing
is look obviously I'm morally opposed to
Taliban and I morally support democracy
voting freedom of speech these kind of
things but on a purely Machiavellian
analytical level does anyone think the
Taliban are incorrect
think the Taliban statement that these
elections are on Islamic and are an
attempt to subvert their traditional
Islamic Taliban style of government
attempt to get rid of Sharia law and
traditional Muslim rule does anyone
think does anyone disagree does anyone
really think that the American
orchestrated elections are not a foreign
plot to prolong the u.s. military
occupation that's exactly what they are
and guess what the Taliban have other
methods of taking over the government
and in effect the Taliban's election
promise is there will be no more
elections that is a very profound
commitment the Taliban have made so the
other thing I gotta say is some of you
might be shocked that I said Donald
Trump's 2017 strategy which is nail
abandoning that's what we're making this
video he's abandoned in that strategy in
these in these elections I said that it
was not stupid it was merely impossible
here's what stupid looks like and this
guy is an expert I'm Ed charai if I may
attempt to pronounce his name he
concludes this long analysis I read it
all so you don't have to with finally
the biggest mistake of retreating
superpowers is to not define a desired
end State President Trump should say
that he envisions a multiparty democracy
one in which the Taliban is simply won a
party peacefully contending for power
with others oh you figured it out the
United States never thought of that they
never thought that they could just end
the war by reassuring the Taliban that
they could have elections and the
Taliban could lose
Oh nobody ever proposed this at the
peace negotiations
Oh we're living in a parallel universe
where the Taliban are a tiny powerless
faction who think the best they could do
is get five seats and then what's the
problem it is that the parallel universe
you're living in it's it's completely
out of touch with reality
ludicrous insane but these are the types
of people who are foreign policy experts
these are the types of people who are
going around saying that they know so
much more than Donald Trump that this
former reality TV star and game show
host he can't possibly deal with the
complexity we are 18 years deep and it
seems like the very basic concept that
the Taliban are against elections that
their desire their objective is not to
be a minority party in a House of
Commons with free and fair pluralistic
democracy in debate not really the
talibans vision of the future so this is
the world we live in and I think you
guys know Western interest in and
concern about the Taliban hit a peak and
maybe 2002 and it's it's been on the
wane ever since I really cannot remember
any coverage of the elections that at
least started in 2018 in Afghanistan in
some ways they were they were still
going on I still be wrapped up in 2019 I
think it would be fair to say that they
have been ignored ignored in principle
and ignored in their their cosmos so
guys I try not to do this to you too
much I try not to tug at your
heartstrings this is a straight
political analysis channel but this is
the other more emotional side of things
that I don't see in the in the Western
press and it of course it shows what a
joke and I win sincere our commitment to
to feminism is here's an Indian
newspaper of the Hindu Mariam Yousef an
Afghan medical professional sure their
concerns with this writer quote I do
fear about the Taliban coming back to
power in Afghanistan having already
lived through and escaped that hell once
before
close quote she said during the Taliban
years
Joseph had watched her elderly mother
being lashed publicly by the group's
morality police for not covering her
face quote my mother was a very
religious lady who prayed five times a
day and yet they beat humiliated and
abused her for not being faithful we
left a few months after that incident
close quote she recalled adding that
there was a genuine fear among many
women that they might once again be
forced to leave the country agreeing
with Miss Hamidi Ms Joseph added that
she does for see a stronger resistance
from Afghans were the Taliban to return
quote the thing that makes me optimistic
is that the whole country is more aware
and connected people know about their
basic rights women and youth know about
the rights they deserve and are willing
to fight for me it's tragic the optimism
the false hope is tragic
guess what Obama was elected on hope one
trillion US dollars 18 years of warfare
from what's regarded as the world's most
professional and effective military coup
your will whole story you're willing to
fight for it oh really the US Marine
Corps was willing to fight for it and
they lost it's touching it's genuinely
touching to imagine that the women of
Afghanistan who value the right to vote
are now gonna stand up and fight for it
against the Taliban US Marine Corps lost
US Marine Corps is packing up and going
home you don't stand a chance the best
you can do is run and anyone who looks
at a map will tell you it's not real
easy to say where it is you can run to
the consequences of these foreign policy
choices are deadly serious and the other
one we haven't touched on this channel
much yes of what what's gonna happen to
the Kurds once now that Trump is packing
up and ending u.s. foreign policy
support for four independent Kurdistan
however you want to however you want to
put it these things have a real price in
blood I can think of a lot of ways the
United States to spend one trillion
dollars a little bit a lot of ways them
to even spend a $1 in Afghanistan to
have better
this but nobody asked me and you know
you know who they asked you know you
know under the George W Bush presidency
you know who was in the room who who is
in the brains trust who was doing the
brain storms there who was standing
there in front of the whiteboard it
wasn't saying well I could think of
about three options here and two of them
were the atom bomb
so I closed this quotation even if the
Taliban comes to power it will face a
lot of resistance it will not be easy
for it to control Afghans we will see
but the loss of the female right to vote
is only one side of the story there's
also the loss of everyone's right to
vote because the Taliban do not tolerate
elections at all levels of the press
including fairly elite political
analysis I see two different types of
spin being put on the story and I think
they're mostly just pandering to the
audience trying to make this into a
feel-good story instead of a feel bad
story I think we can all agree this
video you've just sat through is
unbearably grim wouldn't it be nice if
someone could put a spin on it I don't
know some kind of happy ending but there
was really no happy I need to be found
one type of spin is this suggestion that
what's happening now in Afghanistan is a
perfect parallel to what happened at the
end of the Vietnam War and I think this
is an attempt to make the audience feel
good about themselves because this has
been bandied about as a sort of truism
since September 11th 2001 that if
America invaded Afghanistan it would
just be like Vietnam all over again so a
lot of people get to sit back and feel
sort of proud of themselves and say oh I
told you so
I've been saying it since 2001 it would
just be like Vietnam all over again and
the worst aspect of that attitude of all
in my opinion is that it revealed the
extent to which Americans are not merely
kidding themselves about what's
happening today in Afghanistan but also
the extent to which they're they're
still lying to themselves about how and
why the Vietnam War and it when it did
what happened militarily and
geopolitically at the end of the Vietnam
War
I've written a long article about this I
know that nobody is gonna click on the
link below this video to go and read
that article
but let me tell you something there's a
real sense in which the Vietnam War
didn't end the Vietnam War simply turned
into the Cambodian war what had been a
struggle of the CIA against the
Vietnamese became instead a struggle of
the CIA the Chinese and Pol Pot the
Cambodians all working together against
the Vietnamese so there's a very real
sense in which the Vietnam War didn't
end it simply carried on through other
means through a bizarre foreign policy
some people called the strategic
triangle and that is the policy that
Nixon was so proud of himself about he
always seems strangely proud about this
plan he devised with the Chinese and the
Vietnam War and still in 2019 people are
strangely in a state of denial about it
and then there's this this is the more
subtle and disgraceful form of
self-deception the people in the
mainstream press seem to be indulging in
and it's scary to me to think the people
who really have an education in
political science and maybe people in
the halls of power are engaging in this
kind of self-deception too so second
paragraph on screen here quote for the
Taliban an agreement on the withdrawal
of American troops would guarantee
something of a victory something of a
victory something of a victory he says
in their military struggle after
eighteen years of fighting they would
have forced American troops to leave
close quote stop stop stop what do you
mean something of a victory how is it
possible that in 2019 with the stakes so
high with this being a question of life
and death not just for the abstract
principle of democracy but for anyone
who's SEC secular free thinking modern
minded people in Afghanistan thirty five
million people and we're gonna sit
around and kill yourself what do you
mean something of a victory this is it
this is the end this is the defeat of
the American side this is the victory of
the Taliban
as it says here in the first sentence
the Taliban are in a position where they
don't even need to negotiate they can
wait for the clock to run down because
they know with or without a treaty with
or without an agreement they've already
won the war and it seems that nobody was
really prepared for the scenario what if
the United States loses and leaves and
so we're still at this first step of
asking this question what happens next
what happens now not when the Taliban
have had something of a victory when
they have against all odds against a one
trillion dollar military budget when
they have in fact won people like to
disrespect my truth but the fact is that
you know my name is I don't know